# Online-Shopping-Cart-Using-C
The basic idea behind the making of shopping cart is using linear data structure. Data structure in C are used to stored data in an organized and efficient manner. The C language has many data structures like array, linked list, stack, queue, etc. 

We have selected an Array as an appropriate data structure for our project. There are types in Array data structure like One dimensional Array and Multi-dimensional Array from which we have selected an One Dimensional Array which can be explained as a row where elements are stored one after another. syntax: datatype array_name[size]; datatype: It denotes the type of the elements in the array. Array_name: Name of the array. It must be a valid identifier. size: Number of elements an array can hold.

We have also used static int for total cost because it remains in memory while the program is running. A normal or auto variable is destroyed when a function call where the variable was declared is over. The quantity, total cost of each item & discount are stored in an one dimensional array. 

The categories and items are stored in pointer array whereas price of items in 1-D array. The code starts with the salutation according to the real time taken from the computer. We have declared various functions for various operations for example taking a look at cart, Category menu, Category items, total cost, etc. 

First list of items with their respective categories & cost of each item is displayed. Further, we give a choice to the user to navigate from different categories and then after selecting the category the items in the selected category are displayed. 
After selecting an item user is displayed with the offer/discount and the input for quantity is taken. The chosen item is then stored in the cart with its cost, quantity and discount if applicable . For attracting the consumer choice, we have given discounts/offers to users & is applied on the selected items with minimum amount of quantity to be purchased. For making the user navigation more independent, we have given choice to user to view the cart and make changes like Adding an item or removing any item. 
Once the user is done with the confirmation of items bought by him/her, again the choice is given for surety & satisfaction of his/her spending. If the user is done with adding all the items in cart he/she can finally checkout. The final cart will be displayed with the items purchased with their respective quantity and discount. 
Final cost will be displayed with the delivery charges if applicable. This final cost will be printed in numbers as well as in words. While leaving user name with the appreciation for choosing The Digital Outlet and giving us chance to serve the needs will be displayed.
